{"title": "Advantages and Difficulties of Regulating Evidentiary Requirements", "level": "H1", "content": [], "subheadings": [{"title": "N/A", "level": "N/A", "content": [], "subheadings": [{"title": "Technological Advantages in Cyber Operations", "level": "h2", "content": [{"paragraph_title": "Technologically advanced nations have an advantage in covert operations and attribution.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cA third common assumption is that the most industrialised and connected countries are the most vulnerable countries, while less advanced and thus less vulnerable countries have an advantage.88 Attribution again reverses this logic: the larger a government\u2019s technical prowess, and the larger the pool of talent and skills at its disposal, the higher will be that state\u2019s ability to hide its own covert operations, uncover others, and respond accordingly.\u201d (Rid e Buchanan, 2015, p. 31)", "paragraph_id": "34692445"}], "paragraph_count": 1}, {"title": "Challenges in Attribution", "level": "h2", "content": [{"paragraph_title": "Each level of attribution presents unique challenges and requires specific expertise.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cEach of the levels of the attribution process represents a discrete analytical challenge, relies on specific input data and specific expertise, and illuminates a separate aspect of successful attribution (see Figure 2). The analysis on each level needs to be informed and tempered by the others. Though the attribution process typically has a beginning and an end, the cycle does not necessarily follow a specific sequential or chronological order, as hypotheses are confronted with new details and new details give rise to new hypotheses in turn. Nevertheless, the layers represent separate tasks that, though they interrelate, will be analysed individually here. Usually so-called \u2018indicators of compromise\u2019 trigger the attribution process. Such indicators raise specific technical questions. More questions are likely to follow only after more facts have been gathered. On occasion, the attribution process may begin on the operational or strategic level. Sometimes the \u2018first knowers\u2019 of an incident will be above the technical level. Guided by non-forensic sources of intelligence, or by the broader geopolitical context \u2014 sometimes even by intuition \u2014 the possibility of malicious activity may be identified before technical indicators flag it, or indeed even before it begins. Attribution can go either way: the strategic and operational layers may inform the subsequent technical analysis, or vice versa.\u201d (Rid e Buchanan, 2015, p. 9)", "paragraph_id": "57077566"}, {"paragraph_title": "Attribution is an art requiring skills, resources, and political considerations.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThis study introduced a systematic model for attributing cyber attacks and articulated three core arguments: first, that attribution is an art: no purely technical routine, simple or complex, can formalise, calculate, quantify, or fully automate attribution. High-quality attribution depends on skills, tools, as well as organisational culture: well-run teams, capable individuals, hard-earned experience, and often an initial, hard-to-articulate feeling that \u2018something is wrong\u2019.85 The second argument was that attribution is a nuanced and multi-layered process, not a problem that can simply be solved or not be solved. This process requires careful management, training, and leadership. The third argument was that attribution depends on the political stakes. The more severe the consequences of a specific incident, and the higher its damage, the more resources and political capital will a government invest in identifying the perpetrators. Attribution is fundamental: almost any response to a specific offence \u2014 law enforcement, diplomatic, or military \u2014 requires identifying the offender first. Governments get to decide how to do attribution, and they get to decide when attribution is good enough for action.\u201d (Rid e Buchanan, 2015, p. 31)", "paragraph_id": "75943878"}, {"paragraph_title": "Attribution debunks the notion of a structural advantage for cyber intruders.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cNevertheless, a closer look the limits of attribution is crucial. The first serious limitation concerns resources, especially skill and capabilities. The quality of attribution is a function of available resources. Top-end forensic skills as well as organisational experience in complex operations remain scarce, even in a fast-growing international cyber security market. The less resources are available for attribution, the lower will be its quality. The second serious limitation is time: The quality of attribution is a function of the available time. Analysing a well-executed operation in a narrow timeframe will be a significant challenge even for the most professional and best resourced teams, firms, and agencies. In serious cases, when high-level decisions will have to be made under pressure, the speed of political developments may outpace the speed of the attribution process. The less time is available for attribution, the lower will be its quality.\u201d (Rid e Buchanan, 2015, p. 32)", "paragraph_id": "8123187"}, {"paragraph_title": "Public attribution necessitates different evidentiary standards for varied actions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cExample A3 features a cornucopia of public attributions aimed at imposing costs on Rosaria using a range of different modalities, each of which is subject to different requirements or expectations about evidentiary standards\u2014no fewer than four such standards, in this example. Americious\u2019s optimal end state for the criminal indictments is to secure criminal convictions for the three suspects. Here, the evidentiary standard might be something like the American standard of \u201cbeyond a reasonable doubt,\u201d an appropriately high standard when the stakes involve denying persons their liberty. Conviction requires, of course, that ALE is able to bring the three suspects into custody\u2014Americious does not try criminal defendants in absentia\u2014and to presumably do so without the cooperation of Rosaria, which is unlikely to turn over its own operatives to stand trial in a foreign land. Getting custody of the suspects may be tricky, however, if the suspects are savvy about international travel and extradition processes. Americious might have to settle instead for having the suspects live under the shadow of the indictments, which is no trivial thing to the extent the suspects had aspirations of being internationally mobile. The evidentiary standard for indictments compared to criminal convictions is lower in Americious, as is typical, and is similar to the American standard of whether there is probable cause (i.e., reasonable grounds) to believe the suspects committed a crime. The evidentiary standard for economic sanctions may be even lower.\u201d (Grotto, 2020, p. 9)", "paragraph_id": "77724680"}], "paragraph_count": 4, "subheadings": [{"title": "Evidentiary Standards in Attribution", "level": "h3", "content": [{"paragraph_title": "Civil litigation requires high evidentiary standards for cyber damage claims.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThe example notes that Americious ministers published an alert on the technical aspects of the threat, with recommended mitigations. Even though the point of the alert seems to be to equip defenders with threat information and practical mitigations as opposed to making the case for Rosaria\u2019s culpability, the ministers should expect skeptics and naysayers to cite any perceived evidentiary inadequacies in the alert as part of an effort to undermine the credibility of Americious\u2019s accusations against Rosaria.\u201d (Grotto, 2020, p. 9)", "paragraph_id": "17612499"}, {"paragraph_title": "Evidentiary standards in attribution may not influence effective deterrence.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cExtending Example A2 further, Americious may want to send deterrence signals to Rosaria. It could so in a variety of ways, but what is important is that the signals are intelligible and credible to Rosaria\u2019s leadership; otherwise, the signal would not have the desired impact. Americious could send a public signal (more on this later), but it could also send a private signal through one or more discreet channels, such as the Americious ambassador to Rosaria delivering a demarche to the Rosaria foreign minister and/or the Americious embassy chief of station communicating with the head of Rosaria\u2019s military intelligence. The message might go something like this: \u201cWe know you did this, and if we see you preparing to do this against us, we will be forced to respond preemptively at a time and in a manner of our choosing.\u201d This would be an example of selective attribution in service of deterrence.\u201d (Grotto, 2020, p. 7)", "paragraph_id": "45157000"}, {"paragraph_title": "Categorizing attribution provides a common reference for debate and evidentiary standards.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cMy contention and objective are that parsing the concept of attribution into these broad categories can provide a common reference point for 1. scholarly and policy debate about the means and ends of cyber attribution 2. appropriate evidence standards for different types of attribution claims 3. the advisability of various proposals for encouraging more and better attribution.\u201d (Grotto, 2020, p. 3)", "paragraph_id": "86423148"}, {"paragraph_title": "International evidentiary standards for cyber attribution lack consistency.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cPersuading a jury to deliver a guilty verdict in a criminal case is no small feat, from an evidentiary perspective. Persuading foreign governments that an analytic attribution is true, as Americious and Ukaria will have to do to build a multilateral coalition against Rosaria\u2019s actions, presents its own unique challenges, for several reasons. There are no consensus evidentiary standards under international law generally for assigning blame, let alone in the cyber context specifically. For example, a U.N. Group of Governmental Experts concluded in 2015 that accusations of malicious cyberactions should be \u201csubstantiated,\u201d but there was no consensus on what it would take to substantiate an accusation.15 In addition, unlike criminal proceedings in most rule-of-law democracies, where evidentiary rules exist to safeguard the integrity of evidence, there are no such rules in international affairs. Indeed, Americious based its analytic attribution in part on classified intelligence collection, which is often stolen information\u201d (Grotto, 2020, p. 9)", "paragraph_id": "94408619"}, {"paragraph_title": "Various conceptions of cyber attribution reflect biases and differing evidentiary standards.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cAmid calls for more cyber attribution, criticisms that governments do not do it enough, various proposals for new organizations to step in to fill the perceived gap, and a recent effort by the U.S. intelligence community to clarify its methodology for attribution, I attempt to bring greater coherence and clarity to scholarly and policy debate about attribution by identifying and defining different iterations of the concept. Though the various uses and conceptions of cyber attribution arguably have more in common with each other than not, they also reflect subtle but important biases about the means and ends of attribution as well as different evidentiary standards, target audiences, and modes of communication for attribution claims.\u201d (Grotto, 2020, p. 2)", "paragraph_id": "25761084"}], "paragraph_count": 5, "subheadings": [{"title": "International and Domestic Standards", "level": "h4", "content": [{"paragraph_title": "International armed conflicts require evidence of overall control by sponsoring states.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThe difference between establishing state responsibility and a noninternational armed conflict becoming \u201cinternationalized\u201d is that the \u201csponsoring state exercises \u2018overall control\u2019 over an organized armed group.\u201d106 Therefore, though an organized armed group could still be considered a nonstate actor, a state supporting the organized armed group could attain complete control of the group\u2019s objectives, which would make the organized armed group an extension of that state\u2019s military objectives. The International Criminal Court found that merely participating in an operation through financial support or equipping the organized armed group was insufficient to categorize the non-international armed conflict into an international armed conflict between states.107 Rather, the state had to play a role in the organizing, planning, and coordinating of the military objectives to internationalize the original non-international armed conflict between a victim state and an organized armed group of non-state actors.108 \u201cBy this standard, a state which identifies cyber targets for an organized armed group, provides it essential intelligence necessary to launch destructive attacks, or participates in the planning of the group\u2019s military cyber operations becomes a party to an international armed conflict with the target state.\u201d109\u201d (Hill, 2019, p. 11)", "paragraph_id": "33309894"}, {"paragraph_title": "Victim states face complex challenges in attribution due to ambiguous international law.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn attribution, victim states must assess the act, the actor, and any other potential factors that provide information to support the victim state\u2019s theory of responsibility for the cyber act. The lack of defined terms and ambiguous thresholds present in international law creates a complex task for victim states in the pursuit of responding to cyber acts. Attribution is vital to a victim state because responsibility of an act must be determined before a response can be implemented. Further, as described above, international law requires the act to meet a particular threshold in order for a victim state to respond in proportionality. The ability of a victim state to respond is related to the severity of the act.186 \u201cIn principle, the graver the underlying breach, the greater the confidence must be in the evidence relied upon.\u201d187 The reason behind this statement is that with the rise in severity of the act comes a higher risk that the determination of responsibility could produce a proportionate response from a victim state. If incorrectly attributed, it could be devastating to another state.188 This error is a particularly crucial evidentiary consideration when determining the attribution of a cyber act committed by non-state actors and the attempt to attribute that act to a state.\u201d (Hill, 2019, p. 23)", "paragraph_id": "42638535"}, {"paragraph_title": "International law lacks clear evidentiary standards for attributing cyber operations.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cHowever, international law does not outline the evidentiary considerations necessary to assess attribution. \u201cInvestigations of cyberattacks among states are complicated by the absence of a uniform body of rules on the production of evidence in international law.\u201d189 One of the complications specific to cyberspace is the levels of evidence that are necessary to attribute a cyber operation to a particular state.190 There may be three levels of evidence. The first level is locating the physical equipment used in the cyber operation.191 The second level is the identification of the individual(s) behind the cyber operation.192 The third level is connecting individual(s) to a state, and proving that the individual(s) were acting on behalf of the state is needed to attribute the cyber operation to a state.193 With technological advances and forensic tools, it seems plausible to determine with accuracy the first level of evidence necessary to attribute a cyber operation to an adversary. However, technology can only assist with the other two levels of evidence. This is the nature of cyberspace. Cyberspace allows adversaries to assume aliases, hide behind various technology, and use other computers to carry out their goals.194 The International Court of Justice has alluded to the need for \u201cclear evidence\u201d in cases of determining responsibility of cyber acts committed by non-state actors; however, the International Court of Justice did not explain any further as to the meaning or threshold of \u201cclear evidence.\u201d195 Moreover, the standard of proof does not have to meet the criminal standard of \u201cbeyond a reasonable doubt\u201d nor does it require absolute certainty.196 Therefore, victim states must rely on more than just technology to attribute cyber operations to a particular actor.\u201d (Hill, 2019, p. 23)", "paragraph_id": "81663828"}, {"paragraph_title": "Attribution relies on diverse sources of information including forensics and circumstantial evidence.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIt is well established that in its very general sense, \u201cattribution is a multidimensional issue that draws on all sources of information available, including forensics, human intelligence, signals intelligence, history, geopolitics, among other\u201d things.197 Such human factors assist in the attribution of individuals and groups to a particular state. Circumstantial evidence such as background and associations provide victim states with information that can link an individual or groups to a particular state. These types of factors provide a picture of the party responsible and the likelihood the party is associated with others. In the law enforcement field, an investigator\u2019s study of a perpetrator\u2019s past affiliations and associations can provide significant leads that can help identify the responsible party behind a particular criminal act. Similarly, attribution can also include the determination if an act was meant to be malicious or hostile in the first place.198 Additional factors provide an opportunity for states to generate an accurate threat picture that can guide them in the collection of evidence in their case for attribution.\u201d (Hill, 2019, p. 24)", "paragraph_id": "70236595"}, {"paragraph_title": "Regulating evidentiary standards may enhance attribution credibility and political impact.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn summary, regulating evidentiary standards might have more benefits than downsides. Establishing legal requirements will certainly make the process of attribution more complex. At the same time, substantiated public attributions would be more credible and it is likely that they would also provoke stronger political effects. Thus, it is necessary to evaluate how evidentiary standards can be regulated.\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 8)", "paragraph_id": "9937623"}, {"paragraph_title": "Technical challenges complicate the collection of evidence for attributions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn contrast, one of the main arguments against the establishment of evidentiary standards is the fact that identification of cybercriminals can be technically challenging. Therefore, public attribution might only be possible in a handful of cases.24 Considering that technical evidence tends to be the basis of the attribution process, this is also a relevant aspect for political attributions.25 Attribution is a complex, time and resource-consuming forensic process.26 The reason behind such complex process is mainly the technical efforts of uncovering the details about a given attack. Among the many technical challenges is, for instance, the level of anonymity attackers are able to achieve.27 This process can be facilitated by the development of cyber forensics, a field that has seen many advancements in recent years.28 As suggested by Rid and Buchanan, multidisciplinary, skilful, resourceful, and adequately managed teams are key to overcome technical difficulties and achieve successful attributions.29 Thus, even though substantiating attributions might be more technically challenging, the quality of the declarations also increases when they are accompanied with an adequate level of evidence. In this respect, the \u201cquality\u201d of the attributions (i.e. the level of political impact) should be considered more important than the quantity of statements.\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 7)", "paragraph_id": "38139672"}, {"paragraph_title": "Compelling states to provide evidence prevents false accusations.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cOne of the main advantages of compelling states to provide evidence is that it prevents wrong and false accusations.19 Such inaccurate accusations could be harmful to the accused state, especially because they are difficult to refute. For instance, the lack of evidentiary support raised doubts in 2015, when the United States claimed that the People\u2019s Republic of China (PRC) was responsible for an intrusion of the Office of Personnel Management. The Foreign Ministry of the PRC argued that this claim was mere speculation, calling the use of terms such as likely or suspected neither \u201cresponsible nor scientific\u201d. This response concluded with a pledge to \u201crefrain from making groundless accusations\u201d.20 In such situations statements might not have the effect of \u201cnaming and shaming\u201d,21 since attributions without proof can be disregarded as speculation. This shows how the political bias embedded in such manifestations induces a lack of trust. Without proper evidence, contestation (or corroboration) is not possible. To reach the desired effect with political statements states should adequately substantiate attributions.\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 6)", "paragraph_id": "48184573"}, {"paragraph_title": "A legal obligation to provide evidence for attributions is not currently recognized.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cWhen it comes to the second requirement (opinio juris), there is currently no general sense that a legal obligation to present evidence exists.45 Therefore, the understanding of some states that providing evidence is a matter of policy would have to change.46 In other words, substantiating attributions should be considered as the norm to which states will adhere to. As Eichensehr suggests,47 future attributions and public statements could contain references to customary international law, while states and non-governmental actors should widely criticise evidence-free attributions. If the sense of legal obligation can be recognised, along with state practice, a legally binding rule of customary international law can crystallise over time. Substantiated attributions can serve as proof of practice and, if they \u201cpersist and spread over time, states may come to assume that these accusations are evidence of opinio juris\u201d.48 This means that the attributions themselves might serve as building blocks for the creation of international law.\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 10)", "paragraph_id": "44245380"}, {"paragraph_title": "Establishing evidentiary standards requires revealing sources, impacting state security.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cAnother aspect to consider is that if evidentiary standards were to be established, states would have to reveal sources and methods used to analyse and assess responsibility.30 The defensive and offensive capabilities of States might be unclear to their competitors, and the confidentiality of technical means available can be a reason to oppose any mandatory requirement for providing proof of responsibility. In other words, States might be resistant to recognise the merits of an obligation to substantiate attributions. However, as many states already provide evidence to some degree, legal procedures might not provoke a significant change in behaviour. Rather, a change in their motivation for providing evidence, from policy choice to a legal requirement could take place. Besides, openness comes with benefits such as increased credibility of \u201cthe messenger\u201d, increased quality of the attribution, and better defence since open communication can contribute to the improvement of collective security.31\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 7)", "paragraph_id": "18437150"}, {"paragraph_title": "States should provide sufficient evidence in cyberattack attributions, despite technical challenges.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cFinally, it is necessary to assess how much evidence should be required. Given the current technical challenges, it is not expected that states should provide an absolute and irrefutable statement: public attributions are part of ongoing processes.50 This means that after the public political attribution, the evidence provided by the state can undergo further analysis (to be corroborated or refuted). Other states may also join in condemnation, or they may criticise the declaration (depending on their own assessment of the content, format, and evidence). For this reason a \u201cmix of fact and judgement\u201d would still prevail in many cases.51 Although complete certainty is not expected from cyberattack attributions, states should provide \u201csufficient evidence\u201d.52 This would be the minimum amount of proof that enables other states, non-governmental organisations, and academic researchers to crosscheck the assessment of the incident.53 Therefore, an internationally recognised rule should require states to include sufficient evidence (sources and methods) in political attributions in order to make them open to criticism or corroboration. This should be the case even if that statement contains estimative language.\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 10)", "paragraph_id": "79481358"}, {"paragraph_title": "Insufficient state practice hinders the establishment of customary norms for evidence in attributions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cCurrently, there is insufficient state practice and a lack of opinio juris when it comes to standards of evidence in political attributions.43 For this reason, it is necessary to evaluate what should change in state practice. Regarding the first requirement (i.e. consistent and general state practice), it is noteworthy that states already tend to provide some level of evidence in attributions, as previously described.44 However, even though some level of state practice can be identified, the current practice cannot be considered consistent and general. Thus, this needs to be further developed. For instance, states could agree that all future public attributions will be substantiated by sufficient evidence to enable corroboration and crosschecking. This would lead to a more consistent and general practice, which would then be expected from states making public attributions going forward.\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 9)", "paragraph_id": "30769948"}, {"paragraph_title": "Establishing evidentiary standards is crucial for enhancing the credibility of political cyberattack attributions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cOne way of making political cyberattack attributions more credible and trustworthy is by establishing evidentiary standards that states should follow when making public declarations. More substantiated attributions could lead to a better understanding of cyberattacks and increase trust. However, substantiating attributions would require states to disclose their sources and methods, which can be undesirable for reasons of confidentiality and secrecy.\u201d (Blauth e Gstrein, 2021, p. 3)", "paragraph_id": "56364693"}, {"paragraph_title": "Clear evidentiary requirements are vital for responsible cyber attribution.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn a combined norm on the rules of attribution, evidentiary requirements and legal consequences of erroneous attribution could be termed as: 1. A state cannot be held responsible under international law solely because a problematic ICT activity was launched or otherwise originated from its territory or from its ICT infrastructure. 2. A state should substantiate its public attribution with an adequate level of evidence for crosschecking, by default to the extent of establishing a clear and convincing case, depending on the purpose and severity of its claim. 3. A state should refrain from taking responsive measures based on public attribution that has been inadequately substantiated, and it may take corresponding responsibility for making an erroneous or falsified attribution.\u201d (Yang, 2022, p. 8)", "paragraph_id": "35974183"}, {"paragraph_title": "The adequate standard of evidence for cyber public attribution aligns with the 'clear and convincing' level.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cWith some room for debate, ICJ cases and state practices support the \u201cclear and convincing\u201d standard for self-defense cases.39 For disputes with lower-level severity, a generally accepted principle\u2014although without any specifics\u2014is that evidentiary standards should vary along a sliding scale based on the severity of the offense. Extant cases that adopt the \u201cpreponderance standard\u201d are mostly regarding territory disputes, which rarely involve state responsibility.40 From these premises, two deductions can be safely made. First, the adequate level of evidence for cyber public attribution should lie around the \u201cclear and convincing\u201d standard. Second, in any event, sufficient evidence to allow crosschecking can be a proper guideline.41\u201d (Yang, 2022, p. 6)", "paragraph_id": "45860815"}, {"paragraph_title": "The burden of proof typically rests on the claimant state in cyber attribution cases.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cOf those two evidentiary issues, burden of proof is less controversial. It is generally recognized that in \u201ca bilateral dispute over State responsibility, the onus of establishing responsibility lies in principle on the claimant State.\u201d35 Yet, somehow, a shift of the burden of proof has been mentioned as a mechanism specifically tailored for cyber attribution, sometimes referred to as a \u201cvirtual control\u201d test.36 The main argument behind this idea is that in cyber disputes, the origin state for the alleged misbehavior has better access to the knowledge necessary to establish certain facts. This would probably cause more trouble than it intends to solve,37 as the prima facie responsibility of the accused state would be established with a shift of the burden of proof.\u201d (Yang, 2022, p. 6)", "paragraph_id": "61969402"}, {"paragraph_title": "Setting an evidentiary standard for cyber attribution enhances the credibility of attributions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cSome may disfavor setting an evidentiary standard. They may argue that the assessment of the adequacy of evidence is only meaningful in a legal forum, but most cyber public attribution cases won\u2019t ever go through litigation. This seemingly realistic viewpoint neglects the fact that clarity about the amount and quality of evidence has its merits. According to Kristen Eichensehr, \u201cEven if setting an evidentiary standard decreases the total number of public attributions, having fewer credible attributions is preferable to having a greater number of ill-founded or erroneous attributions.\u201d42\u201d (Yang, 2022, p. 6)", "paragraph_id": "82602589"}, {"paragraph_title": "Timeliness in making attributions must not compromise the requirement for sufficient evidence.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cAnother opposing viewpoint is that it is hard to reconcile the evidentiary requirement on cyber attribution on one hand with the necessity to make a timely attribution on the other.43 This dilemma indeed exists. It should be subject to careful evaluation in specific contexts. But challenges in collecting and exhibiting evidence should not excuse evidence-less accusations.\u201d (Yang, 2022, p. 6)", "paragraph_id": "41582263"}, {"paragraph_title": "There are varying standards of proof in international litigation for cyber disputes.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cRegarding the standard of proof, a comparative assessment of international litigation can identify at least four different levels. In ascending order, these are: 1. The prima facie possibility, which requires only indicative evidence of the claim. 2. A preponderance of evidence, which concerns mainly the balance of probabilities of the two sides. 3. The \u201cclear and convincing\u201d standard, which requires the party to prove the factual claims are substantially more likely true. 4. Proof beyond reasonable doubt, which requires a full chain of evidence weighing together heavily toward one direction that is virtually indisputable.38\u201d (Yang, 2022, p. 6)", "paragraph_id": "13188085"}, {"paragraph_title": "International law's ambiguity on evidentiary issues facilitates reckless cyber attributions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cGeneral international law has not developed a set of clear rules or consistent guidelines on evidence. Key evidentiary issues such as burden and standard of proof are normally dealt with on an ad hoc basis. For cyber disputes, such ambiguity can be interpreted as a loophole that allows states to carry out malicious cyber activities without consequence; or it can be interpreted as an opportunity that allows states to sometimes make attributions recklessly.\u201d (Yang, 2022, p. 5)", "paragraph_id": "21362651"}, {"paragraph_title": "U.S. law requires varying standards of proof for criminal conviction.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cTo be committed of a crime under U.S. law does not require absolute certainty but rather demands only that there be no reasonable doubt. The lowest standard is \u201cprima facie evidence,\u201d which requires merely indicative or plausible proof. An intermediate standard is \u201cpreponderance of probability,\u201d under which the existence of the fact to be proved must be more likely than not, or, in other words, that it is reasonably probable (Green, 2009). Whereas common law jurisdictions apply all three standards of proof depending on the situation, civil law jurisdiction tend to limit the standard of proof to a single general rule: the judge must be \u201cconvinced\u201d that a disputed fact is true (Dederer and Singer, 2019).\u201d (Greiman, 2021, p. 105)", "paragraph_id": "94212138"}, {"paragraph_title": "Credibility and state relations affect evidentiary requirements.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn addition, states that do not themselves engage in attributions or wish to comment on particular attributions could contribute to the formation of customary international law through voting and participation in deliberations in the United Nations. For example, states might participate in U.N. General Assembly resolutions dealing with attributions and the evidentiary standard.277 Such resolutions could help both to constitute customary international law and reflect that such law has already crystallized by revealing the existence of opinio juris for a broad range of states.278 States could also participate in one of the two ongoing U.N. groups devoted to developing international norms for cyberspace, the Open-Ended Working Group and the Group of Governmental Experts\u2014both of which may issue reports relevant to customary international law.279\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 585)", "paragraph_id": "82228275"}, {"paragraph_title": "A crosschecking requirement sets a minimum evidentiary standard.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThe requirement of sufficient evidence to allow crosschecking would set a floor on the evidence needed to accompany an attribution. Importantly, this floor is independent of the type of responsive action the attributing state may or may not choose to undertake, unlike the sliding scale approach from the ICJ and the Tallinn Manual, which alters the evidence required based on the severity of the attack or anticipated response. The two approaches can be applied in tandem. For severe attacks and significant responses, the sliding scale approach would suggest more than just enough evidence to permit crosschecking, but for less severe incidents, the crosschecking requirement sets an evidentiary floor. That is, even in instances where a victim state\u2019s only response to a cyberattack is attempted naming-and-shaming through public attribution to the perpetrator state, the victim state would be required to provide sufficient evidence to enable crosschecking.\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 579)", "paragraph_id": "68127225"}, {"paragraph_title": "States fear that legal requirements may increase their evidentiary burdens.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cSecond, states may fear that a legal requirement to provide evidence would require more evidence than they currently provide as a matter of policy. But the best way to ensure that does not come to pass is to use their first-mover advantage to stake out a claim about what the legal standard should be.222 If states that currently make public attributions fail to take the lead and use the attributions to set the evidentiary standard, they run the risk of having a legal standard set for them. The standard could be set by other states that get into the attribution business and announce evidentiary standards or successfully advocate for such standards in international fora.223 Or the standard could be set indirectly by nongovernmental attributors in a sort of \u201ccyber CSI effect.\u201d224 Pursuant to the so-called \u201cCSI effect,\u201d the portrayal of high-tech investigations in shows like CSI has allegedly caused jurors in real-life criminal trials to have unreasonable expectations about the kinds and amount of evidence prosecutors can produce.225 Nongovernmental attribution reports could have a similar effect: the nongovernmental parties\u2019 practice of publishing detailed evidence to support their attributions of cyberattacks to governments may shape public and states\u2019 expectations about the type and amount of evidence that governments should supply when making similar accusations. Nonstate practice cannot, of course, directly create customary international law,226 but nongovernmental practice can shape expectations about evidence that, as a practical matter, states may be forced to meet if they wish their attributions to be believed. By foregoing the opportunity to set a legal standard through their attribution practice, the United States and its allies risk having a higher standard set for them as a matter of norms and accepted practice.\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 570)", "paragraph_id": "6377582"}, {"paragraph_title": "Scholars note disagreements among states over evidentiary requirements.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn addition to their practice in carrying out attributions to government actors, states have made some explicit statements regarding attribution-related evidentiary issues. The statement supported by the broadest range of countries came in a 2015 U.N. Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) report.107 The GGE included Brazil, China, India, Russia, the United States, and United Kingdom, among others.108 All of the states agreed that in the cybersecurity context \u201caccusations of organizing and implementing wrongful acts brought against States should be substantiated.\u201d109 But they did not agree on how much or what kind of evidence would suffice to \u201csubstantiate\u201d accusations.110\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 545)", "paragraph_id": "76965330"}, {"paragraph_title": "Clarity on evidentiary standards may enhance the benefits of making credible attributions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cBut setting the secondary rules of evidence may also increase the benefits of making a public attribution. Clarity about the amount and nature of evidence that other states and the cybersecurity community will expect for a credible attribution changes the calculus for states considering the costs of revealing sources and methods necessary to disclose evidence. In essence, clarity about the evidentiary standard helps to ensure that states undertaking the costs of disclosure will obtain the benefit of being believed by relevant actors.231 Clarity about the evidentiary standard could change the calculus for nongovernmental attributors as well. Although nongovernmental parties are not directly bound by international law and thus wouldn\u2019t be required to comply with the evidentiary standard, meeting the standard could lend credibility\u2014and consistency232\u2014to the attribution practices of companies and other nongovernmental attributors as well. Clarity about what an attributor must do to obtain the benefits of attributions may spur additional attributions.\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 572)", "paragraph_id": "90827487"}, {"paragraph_title": "Requiring evidence improves decision-making in attribution.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cMoreover, a requirement for attributors to \u201cshow their work\u201d by providing evidence to support and explain the attribution should incentivize more careful and better reasoned attributions in the first place. This argument is familiar from numerous contexts,253 including U.S. administrative law. There, the requirement that agencies explain the basis for their decisions so that they can be subject to review (by courts, in the administrative context) is understood to foster better decision making ex ante,254 and accountability for decisions ex post.255\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 578)", "paragraph_id": "44661868"}, {"paragraph_title": "Perpetrator states benefit from requiring evidence for accusations against them.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cFrom a purely self-interested perspective, perpetrator states should see value in requiring accusers to support their accusations.218 This category includes the United States, which is an active player in cyberspace, and as such, is likely to be on the receiving end of attributions going forward.219 States that are active in cyberspace can be accused of all manner of activity for which they are not responsible, and could have difficulty refuting such accusations because of the lack of supporting evidence to discredit. The requirement to provide evidence to support accusations acts as a deterrent to untruthful or ill-founded accusations.220\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 568)", "paragraph_id": "53521596"}, {"paragraph_title": "Domestic law evidentiary standards may not suffice for accusations against foreign governments.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn addition, even for the United States, one could reasonably argue that domestic law standards of probable cause for an indictment and reasonable basis for sanctions are insufficient when what is at stake is an accusation of wrongdoing by a foreign government. The domestic legal standards are tied to due process protections for the individuals and entities subject to indictment or sanctions, and, as a matter of U.S. constitutional law, the standards are understood as sufficient to serve that purpose. But the attributions by indictment and attributions by sanctions are serving multiple purposes, and at least arguably, the dominant one is communicating to foreign governments what constitutes unacceptable behavior in cyberspace.244 Domestic law sets a floor, but the amount of evidence necessary to satisfy constitutional due process with respect to, for example, an accusation of unauthorized access to a computer or theft of intellectual property, may well be insufficient to serve the alternative purpose of fostering the development of norms and customary international law about state behavior in cyberspace. Domestic and international evidentiary standards would not conflict in this circumstance; rather, the international law evidentiary standard would simply require more detail and evidence in indictments that accuse foreign governments of cyberattacks.245\u201d (Eichensehr, 2020, p. 576)", "paragraph_id": "26446174"}, {"paragraph_title": "While states have improved attribution abilities, dynamic challenges complicate the process.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cStates are better able to attribute cyber intrusions than they were a decade ago. Yet the technical environment is so dynamic that new tools constantly both improve and occlude attribution capabilities. Spoofing and other challenges can greatly complicate attribution and a response when an immediate response is required, particularly when a state is the suspected perpetrator. As cyber international relations now stand, a few states benefit from the absence of express cyber norms on what suffices to attribute state responsibility for cyber exploitation because they have the most offensive cyber capabilities. However, in general, those states are also the most vulnerable to cyber intrusions. Meanwhile, the disparity between states that are strong and weak at attribution results in the equivalent of an arms race between advances in detection versus detection evasion. Evasion is getting easier faster, so states that do not have advanced attribution capabilities can reliably invest in hiding themselves.47\u201d (Banks, 2019, p. 196)", "paragraph_id": "65185498"}, {"paragraph_title": "Attribution is probabilistic and its credibility increases with more information over time.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cAlthough attribution is necessarily probabilistic, the process serves its purpose if it convinces the responsible state (and victim state\u2019s citizens) that a response to the cyber intrusion is called for.46 The fact that attribution judgments draw on many different sources of information has one major temporal implication\u2014early judgments made with less information are generally less believable than later judgments made with more information. Continuing investigation may reveal additional useful information, which may (or may not) reinforce attribution judgments made earlier. Over time, an international consensus may develop on the minimum level of involvement needed to declare that a state is legally responsible for a cyber operation.\u201d (Banks, 2019, p. 196)", "paragraph_id": "16772144"}, {"paragraph_title": "term prospects for international cyber attribution regulation are bleak.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThe short-term prospects for international legal regulation of cyber attribution are not encouraging. The failure of a state to provide persuasive proof of attribution is not itself an internationally wrongful act. Nor are there burdens of proof or additional legal criteria for establishing attribution. The 2015 United Nations Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) report noted that accusations of wrongful acts by states \u201cshould be substantiated,\u201d41 but the GGE gave no indication of which or how much evidence would suffice or even count. The U.S. view, articulated by State Department Legal Adviser Brian Egan in November 2016, is that \u201ca State acts as its own judge of the facts and may make a unilateral determination with respect to attribution of a cyber operation to another State. ... [T]here is no international legal obligation to reveal evidence on which attribution is based prior to taking appropriate action.\u201d42\u201d (Banks, 2019, p. 195)", "paragraph_id": "6626648"}, {"paragraph_title": "States have no obligation to provide attribution evidence in responses to cyber intrusions.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cStates are likewise not obligated to provide evidence of attribution when responding to another state\u2019s cyber intrusions.43 While the IGE acknowledged the value in such a disclosure requirement, it found insufficient state practice and opinio juris to recognize \u201can established basis under international law for such an obligation.\u201d44 The IGE noted that the highly classified nature of such attribution assessments is the primary reason for the absence of customary international law on this important point.45\u201d (Banks, 2019, p. 195)", "paragraph_id": "14732408"}, {"paragraph_title": "Technical difficulties in cyberattacks increase the risk of misattribution.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThese technical difficulties have two main consequences for attribution, both of which are critical in relation to cyber armed attacks. The first is that the risk of misattribution is heightened, leading to the potential for seriousconflict escalation if a state mistakenly targets an innocent third party in its self-defense response. The second is that the length of time it will realistically take to correctly identify the perpetrator will very likely mean that it will be significantly harder for a state to satisfy the factors of immediacy and necessity required to lawfully exercise its right of self-defense.\u201d (Finlay e Payne, 2019, p. 204)", "paragraph_id": "92504058"}, {"paragraph_title": "The difficulty of attributing responsibility for cyberattacks hinders effective legal responses.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn late 2018, the U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security suggested that \u201ccyber-attacks now exceed the risk of physical attacks.\u201d1 Yet the law has not kept pace with this reality. In particular, identifying who is responsible for a cyberattack makes it difficult to regulate this conduct. A state often cannot practically respond to a threat unless it knows from where the threat emanates and potentially who is responsible. Attribution of cyber conduct is critical from a legal perspective because the unlawful act must be attributable to another state for state responsibility to be engaged.\u201d (Finlay e Payne, 2019, p. 202)", "paragraph_id": "33088340"}, {"paragraph_title": "The effective control doctrine requires direct state control for attributing responsibility.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThe doctrine of effective control originated in the International Court of Justice\u2019s Nicaragua case between the Republic of Nicaragua and the USA from 1984. The International Court of Justice (ICJ) asserted that the responsibility for the actions of private actors \u2013 both entities and individuals \u2013 might be attributed to the state only if the government executed its effective control over these actors. Since the USA did not have effective control over the paramilitaries in Nicaragua, the ICJ could not find Washington responsible for the activities of the contras (ICJ 1986). Hence, in order for a state to be found responsible for the conduct of private actors under the effective control doctrine, based on the Nicaragua case, it must explicitly delegate at least part of the tasks to such nonstate actors (Tikk et al. 2008: 21). The effective control standard was reaffirmed in practice by the Court in the Bosnian Genocide case in 2007 so that Serbia was exculpated from the genocide in Srebrenica (ICJ 2007, paragraph 406). However, in contrast to the effective control doctrine, in its judgment in the Tadic\u0301 case the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) concluded that the effective control standard is inconsistent with the practice of states and is not in accord with the logic of principles of state responsibility (Tikk et al. 2008: 21). The ICTY (1999) concluded that if a state participates in the organisation and coordination of private actors, in addition to supporting them, it possesses sufficient overall control over them and so the conduct of the non-state actors can be attributed to the state.4\u201d (Kadlecov\u00e1, 2018, p. 38)", "paragraph_id": "8907553"}, {"paragraph_title": "States Are Not Required to Disclose Evidence of Attribution", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cStates are likewise not obligated to publicly provide evidence of attribution when responding to another State's cyber intrusions.121 While the IGE acknowledged the value in such a disclosure requirement, they found insufficient State practice and opiniojuristo recognize \"an established basis under international law for such an obligation.122 The IGE noted that the highly classified nature of such attribution assessments is the primary reason for the absence of customary international law on this important point.123 The October 2014 U.S. submission to the GGE is consistent with the IGE on all of these points.124\u201d (Banks, 2016, p. 1505)", "paragraph_id": "72331876"}, {"paragraph_title": "Different evidentiary standards might be necessitated by the severity of allegations in legal cases.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThe use of these ostensibly disparate terms may not be entirely without rhyme or reason; it may be that different standards apply in different cases. The notion of a variable standard was implied as early as in the Corfu Channel case. When examining the evidence for the UK\u2019s contention that Albania had colluded with Yugoslavia in laying the minefield, the Court stated that a \u2018charge of such exceptional gravity against a State would require a degree of certainty that has not been reached here\u2019.71 It thus implied that the standard of proof should correspond to the \u2018gravity\u2019 of the charge. Subsequent cases referred to a gravity scale as a matter of existing law,72 although neither the \u2018notches\u2019 on the scale nor the corresponding standard of proof were identified. One exception is the Bosnia Genocide case (2007), where the Court not only reiterated the doctrine73 but also required different levels of proof to different types of allegations. Even then it did not explain its choice.\u201d (Ronen, 2020, p. 12)", "paragraph_id": "45844095"}, {"paragraph_title": "Higher evidentiary standards may apply to more serious violations, suggesting 'preponderance of evidence' could suit lower gravity cyber operation allegations.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cNotably, the case law in which a specific standard was applied, namely \u2018clear and convincing evidence\u2019, concerned alleged violations of the prohibition on the use of force. Just as a higher standard is applicable in some cases of even greater gravity, it may be that the \u2018preponderance of evidence\u2019 would be deemed appropriate in cases of lower gravity.125 This may be appropriate for attribution of cyber operations that allegedly violate norms lower down the gravity scale than the use of force. Such may be the case when the allegation is only of a violation of the prohibition on non-interference or of the prohibition on violation of state sovereignty.\u201d (Ronen, 2020, p. 20)", "paragraph_id": "42291709"}, {"paragraph_title": "Establishing legal attribution for cyber proxies is complex due to high evidentiary thresholds.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cAssessing whether the nature of the relationship between a cyber proxy and a state satisfies the requirements for legal attribution is challenging due to the high thresholds of the various attribution rules and the difficulty of factually establishing the nature of the relationship between the proxy and the state. Complicating matters is the absence of any agreed-upon evidentiary threshold for attribution (unless the case is before a court), disagreement as to whether reasonable but mistaken attribution renders a countermeasure (see below) unlawful, and the \u00a0fact that international law does not require states to produce the evidence upon which they base attribution. Nonetheless, only after an attribution determination has been made is it possible to identify the available response options. It is to those options that the discussion turns.\u201d (Johnson e Schmitt, 2021, p. 22)", "paragraph_id": "77280063"}, {"paragraph_title": "Responses to proxy attacks require feasibility as a key condition.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cA proxy group targeting an essential interest is not enough to warrant otherwise unlawful responses; the additional criteria must be satisfied. Key among these is that the otherwise unlawful operation is the only feasible course of action for putting an end to the grave and imminent peril. If lesser response measures such as acts of retorsion or switching to a secondary or backup system, can safeguard the interest, a targeted state may not act out of necessity.\u201d (Johnson e Schmitt, 2021, p. 28)", "paragraph_id": "60222173"}, {"paragraph_title": "attacks exemplify situations with exclusive evidence control and necessitate a reevaluation of evidentiary burdens by the ICJ.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cCyber-attacks might to some extent be considered textbook examples of a scenario where one party has exclusive control over the evidence required and where direct proof is often not available.158 Section 5.1 thus seeks to shine some light on whether or not the Court would be inclined to shift the burden of proof in the cyber context. Next, the question whether the ICJ might depart from its strict approach concerning circumstantial evidence will be addressed in section 5.2.159 For both questions, opinions of different legal scholars will be analysed. Finally, as a new way forward to resolve some of the evidentiary issues in the cyber context, the present authors suggest that \u2013 as an alternative solution \u2013 the Court should make more use of its inherent powers regarding the production of evidence (section 5.3).\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 98)", "paragraph_id": "27182969"}, {"paragraph_title": "The ICJ applies varying evidentiary standards based on claim severity.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cFirst, the present authors started with analysing the current evidentiary regime of the Court to shine light on this delicate topic. It became clear that when dealing with state responsibility, the Court has applied three different standards. These vary according to the seriousness of the claim. Thus, for charges of exceptional gravity, for example, it found that it must be convinced by fully conclusive evidence.\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 106)", "paragraph_id": "91959058"}, {"paragraph_title": "The Court aims for fairness and may consider lowering evidentiary standards rather than reversing the burden of proof.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIt is, however, important to note that the Court has always been concerned with a level playing field for the parties, which could not be facilitated by a reversal of the burden. What may however be considered, might be lowering the evidentiary standard to facilitate the discharge of the burden.174\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 100)", "paragraph_id": "72696161"}, {"paragraph_title": "The ICJ has wide discretion in determining evidentiary standards.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cBefore examining the evidentiary standards, it is important to highlight that the Court generally enjoys wide discretion in matters of evidence.39 Neither the Statute nor the Rules of Court contain formal rules regarding the Court\u2019s handling of evidence and in particular, the evaluation of the probative value of evidence submitted by the parties.40 Accordingly, Article 58(2) Rules of Court only stipulates that \u2018[...] the method of handling the evidence [...] shall be settled by the Court after the views of the parties have been ascertained [...].\u201941 The Rules of the Court, equally, do not mention which standard of proof has to be applied by the Court nor which methods of proof (eg documentary evidence) are persuasive enough to the ICJ to meet a certain standard.42 This wide discretionary power, therefore, not only applies to fact-finding in general, but also to the Court\u2019s choice of the appropriate evidentiary standard in a given case.43\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 82)", "paragraph_id": "67469674"}, {"paragraph_title": "The clear and convincing standard balances state protection and proof obligations.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThis leaves us with the still relatively high clear and convincing standard that effectively protects states from false attribution, while at the same time making it possible to discharge the burden of proof successfully.184\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 102)", "paragraph_id": "73282403"}, {"paragraph_title": "The ICJ requires different evidentiary standards based on the gravity of the charges.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cThe fact that the Court requires different evidentiary standards depending on the level of seriousness of the breach became most evident in its Bosnian Genocide judgment.53 In that case, the Court highlighted the difference between proving the commission of genocide and proving the failure to prevent genocide, as well as to punish and extradite persons charged with the crime of genocide.54 While the Court stated that it requires fully conclusive evidence for charges of exceptional gravity and has to be fully convinced that the act of genocide was committed by the respondent, it pointed out that it \u2018only\u2019 requires proof at a high level of certainty appropriate to the seriousness of the allegation for other charges than of exceptional gravity.55 This was the case with proving that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia failed to prevent the commission of genocide,56 which is consequently a less severe violation of international law compared to the commission of genocide. Accordingly, Judge Greenwood pointed out that if cases exist where a state claims charges of exceptional gravity against another state, there have to be cases where a party claims less serious breaches and in those disputes, a lower standard of proof would be appropriate.57 While the Bosnian Genocide case clearly shows that the ICJ requires a higher degree of certainty for serious charges, it is more difficult to perceive the exact difference between \u2013 in what seems like \u2013 a variety of evidentiary standards mentioned in the Court\u2019s other case law. This is exemplified by the Court\u2019s approach to use terms such as \u2018convincing/convinced\u2019,58 \u2018conclusive\u2019,59 \u2018sufficient\u201960 and \u2018insufficient/not sufficient evidence\u201961 rather confusable so far instead of explaining which specific standard it applies to find the facts of an allegation established.62 The inconsistency in its method can also be seen in the fact that the ICJ mentions different standards in the same judgment, as can be seen in Corfu Channel.63 Nevertheless, it must be noted that this case is significant in the sense that it helps to identify two standards which are not appropriate in state responsibility cases.\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 85)", "paragraph_id": "61594015"}, {"paragraph_title": "The burden of proof must be clearly established before determining the standard of proof.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cWhen discussing the standard of proof, however, it is inevitable to discuss the issue of burden of proof beforehand.44 Most importantly, the two should not be confused. Burden of proof means that the party who asserts a fact in the proceeding is also the party who bears the burden of proving it,45 namely \u2018to convince the Court of the truthfulness of its claim\u2019.46 Only after it becomes clear which party bears the burden of proof, the Court is called upon to decide on the necessary standard.47 In this sense, the standard of proof stipulates which degree of probability has to be provided by the party to convince the Court48 or more specifically, the quantum of proof that has to be shown in order to \u2018[...] discharge the burden of proof when that burden rests upon [that party]\u2019.49 Looking at the rare amount of cases where the ICJ has touched upon the question of evidentiary standards, it becomes evident that there is not a single standard for all disputes arising before it.50 In cases concerning state responsibility,51 the actual standard of proof in a given case is determined by the substantive nature of the obligation, which was breached and is claimed by a party.52\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 83)", "paragraph_id": "91709321"}, {"paragraph_title": "States may require ICJ assistance to meet evidence standards due to sovereignty issues.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cHowever, it is nevertheless unrealistic to assume that states themselves are able to collect sufficient evidence in order to meet the clear and convincing standard without the Court\u2019s involvement. This, particularly due to the fact that evidence is often located in the exclusive territory of the alleged perpetrator and obtaining said evidence one-sidedly would constitute a violation of that state\u2019s sovereignty.185 The present authors therefore suggest combining the clear and convincing standard with a more enhanced use of the Court\u2019s inherent fact-finding powers. This new approach will be discussed below.\u201d (Brunner et al., 2019, p. 102)", "paragraph_id": "14201383"}], "paragraph_count": 48}]}]}, {"title": "Organizational and Political Considerations", "level": "h2", "content": [{"paragraph_title": "Creating trustworthy assessments in attribution organizations requires independent resources and presents financial challenges.", "paragraph_quoted": "\u201cIn addition to the geopolitical challenges of managing an organization are those of creating trustworthy assessments. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) manages to maintain global trust in its forensics with an independent laboratory, whose work it supplements with a network of over 20 certified laboratories distributed across numerous national jurisdictions. While the same strategy might help to supplement the capability of an attribution-based organization, building this capability will require financial resources. Finding dedicated financial resources for transnational attribution might create its own challenges. Would a government finance an organization tasked with rooting out its espionage operations, what incentives are there for the private sector, particularly those who sell services to multiple governments?\u201d (Kuerbis et al., 2022, p. 233)", "paragraph_id": "80157563"}], "paragraph_count": 1}]}]}